>> Brian Holt: Networking is like one of
those features that like, when works,
you don't think about it and when it
doesn't work, you just wanna die, right?
So I am not gonna spend a bunch of time on
networking because I am not a networking
expert.
I'm gonna show you how to set up networks
in Docker manually and then I'm gonna show
you how to do use Docker compose to
have it done all for you automatic.
But one of the things that like when you
understand what Docker compose is doing
for you, you'll like it a bit better.
Why do we care about networking?
Let's say we have an app and
we have a database,
somehow those two containers
have to talk to each other, or
you have to put them in the same
container, which is a worse idea.
You wanna have your containers that
are running your databases and
you want to have your containers
that are running your app and
you want them to scale independently,
right?
So if you have a bunch of
traffic going to your app but
none of it's going to your database you wanna
scale up to 10 replicas of your app and
keep one of your database or
maybe three or something like that.
But if you're doing a bunch of
MapReduce jobs on your MongoDB cluster,
you probably wanna scale that
up on your Mongo side and
not have to worry about everything
happening in your app, right?
You can understand that those pieces
should move independently of each other,
which is why you would not wanna
put them in the same container.
We're gonna be using Mongo just because
it's a pretty easy container to use.
But you could do this with Postgres or
MySQL or anything like that.
So let's look at docker ls,
sorry, docker network ls,
and you can see here I have a bunch
of stuff for playing around.
We're gonna be creating this one, so I'm
just gonna gonna docker network rm
app-net because we're gonna just
recreate it here in just a second.
Yours probably looks like this or
similar, right?
Pretty close.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so I did Just
remove this, but we're gonna now
recreate our specific Docker
network that we wanna do.
Now you could just do everything
over bridge if you wanted to,
bridge is one that's created
by default by Docker.
The issue is now that any time that any
app is created inside of your cluster
that talks to bridge,
they can all see each other.
So it's better to just
have bespoke networks for
all of your individual concerns,
let's go with.
In other words, Docker doesn't recommend
it, so I'm gonna tell you that Docker
doesn't recommend just using
the default bridge network.
So we're gonna say,
docker network create drive=bridge,
and then we're gonna do app-net.
You can call it whatever you want,
we're gonna call ours app-net.
>> Brian Holt: Driver.
Okay, and
then now I can say docker network ls, and
you can see there,
now I have this app-net.
So how do we connect our
container to that network?
And it's really quite simple,
I'm gonna say docker run -d
--network=app-net -p 27017,
which is the default port for Mongo.
27017 name we're just gonna call it db or
whatever you want to call it and
then i'm gonna run Mongo:7.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, now if I say docker
ps you can see that I have my db container
running in the background
which is running on mongo:7.
But now because I gave it this network
it's gonna be connected to app-net, so
anything else that connects to app-net can
now has the ability to connect to this.
So let's create another little node
app real quick that connects to it.
We're gonna make another directory
called I'll just call it Mongo-app or
something like that, Mongo-app.
Open this in code.
Here, and make this a bit bigger,
create a new file here.
Call it index.js,
>> Brian Holt: And
I'm just gonna grab this
directly from here.
Just this, it's another Fastify client.
You could also just do this directly
from the project files as well.
Probably should have done that,
but we're close anyway.
So I'm in this Mongo-app, I'm gonna have
to say npm init -y to get a package.lock.
Or package file and then I need to install
npm install fastify, and I need Mongodb.
And I think that's all I need.
>> Brian Holt: So those are just the two
dependencies that I'm using here directly
in the app.
So now you can see, yeah, fastify
right there and mongodb right there.
If you look at my package file,
you can see that I have dependencies for
fastify and mongo.
So that's just what I did there.
Now I think because I
exposed this locally,
it should just work if I say,
node index.js.
Is that true?
Open this in the, yeah, that's fine.
>> Brian Holt: So, yeah, it is working.
Then I say /add, and I do that.
So because I published that port,
it's that Mongo client is available, or
the Mongo server is available.
So, despite the fact that I'm just
running this locally, that's all.
There, you can see it's logging
all that stuff out, I don't care.
Cool.
Not the point here, though.
What we really wanna do is we wanna, this
to be all running directly within Docker.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
come back to my client here.
I'm in my Mongo app, and I'm gonna, I
guess I need to grab that Docker file too?
So let's go grab the Docker file.
>> Brian Holt: Project files here.
I have a Dockerfile, as you can imagine,
this is not terribly complicated,
so I'm just gonna copy that and
I'm gonna create a new file here,
call it Dockerfile.
>> Brian Holt: And this is the literally
the exact same one that we had from
earlier in the course, right?
Okay.
Yeah, I think what I was actually
intending to do here was just to go modify
the index.js, cuz that would've been
way simpler than what I did here.
But we're having an adventure, it's fun.
Handcrafted artisanal code
right before your very eyes.
You can see here that we
have Docker file index.js,
our package files and
then our node modules.
That's probably what you expect to see.
And then now we can go ahead and build
our projects, we can say Docker build,
--tag, I think I called it my-app-with-Mongo,
and just period for that.
You can see we will build there, great.
And then we're gonna say docker run -p
8080:8080 network.
>> Brian Holt: Equals app-net,
as you might expect.
So one thing that we have to do if
we're looking at our index.js is we
have to give it the Mongo connection
string, otherwise, it's just gonna try and
connect to the local MongoDB.
That won't work, right?
Because it's not local to that container.
We have to tell it where
it is on the network.
So one of the cool things that we can do
with Docker that I haven't shown you yet,
but probably won't surprise you
after I do --init there, is --env.
You can pass environmental variables
into your container as well.
So I'm gonna say MONGO_CONNECTION_STRING,
and then it's the mongodb protocol://.
Now what's cool about this is like,
I can just call it db,
cuz that's the name of my container,
right?
So it knows to look for the db
container that's on the app-net network.
So I just say db:27017.
And then my-app-with-mongo
cuz if you remember up here,
wherever I did it,
wherever I started the container,
I did it and
I called it the date the name db, right?
Okay, which is what we're putting there.
So whatever you call that name is what
it's gonna be called on the network.
Okay, so I should be able to run that.
Looks like it's running on the network
exposed port 8080 up here.
So now I should be able to localhost
8080,
>> Brian Holt: And
look, it is running on the network.
>> Brian Holt: And everything is working.
>> Brian Holt: So that is
Mongo Networking, I mean technically, but
more interesting that
is Docker networking.
>> Brian Holt: Now,
your next question might be,
how do I do something more
complicated than this?
And my answer to that
question is use composer or
Kubernetes at that point, right?
If you now have three, four,
five different types of containers,
all coexisting on a network together.
You probably need a container
orchestration framework of some variety.
I'm not gonna be prescriptive.
Most people these days choose Kubernetes.
There's several other ones
that you could choose from.
And there's no reason that you couldn't
just all manage this with your own
networking but
my question to you is, why, right?
There's tools that are very good at this,
so why wouldn't you use those?
>> Brian Holt: But for
messing around locally,
this isn't too bad to set up by hand,
right?
And it's probably good for you to know
this is just not that hard to do.